2022-05-27

# Repertoire

Putting it all together.

1. Melody
2. Background, the Chords
3. Improvisation
	1. Scales
	2. Intervals
	3. Arpeggios
	4. Sequences
4 Chord Melody / Melody and Chords. This is a solo arrangement or an arrangement that allows room for other instruments.

## Melody

Melodies are pretty much the same, they are set and recognizable. And, as such can have a set fingering with some alternate fingers depending on dynamics.

Simply find the best place to play it.

## Background - "The Chords"

This is as if you are accompanying a singer or another instrument playing the melody. The chords and rhythmic patterns you play are dictated by the "Style" you are doing.

Some standards can be done as a Ballad, Swing and or Bossa Nova. Pick one or do all of them.

### Harmonic Analysis

A **Harmonic Analysis (HA)** will determine the available substitutions you can do. The harmonic functions of the chords determine the scale selections and scale substitution you can do.

- Page 60 of the [**Harmonic Analysis for Scale Selection and Chord Substitution** =>](https://learningukulele.com/books/code/RMA1) has a blank worksheet and three examples (*Misty, Rhythm Changes, Bluesette*) for doing an **HA/RMA**, *Harmonic Analysis* / *Root Movement Analysis*

## Improvisation

This is why we do the four elements above for the essential scale. These create your  vocabulary to draw from.

### Phrased Melody

You can take the melody and phrase it differently, can get the start of an improvisation.

## Melody and Chord Arrangements

Initially, these are painstakingly worked out using all of the above. And, I always suggest writing it out for future reference and to check and tweak.

As you get more proficient, you can do these on the fly, basically improvise an arrangement. That is where the term "Fake Book" came from. You have a lead sheet, and you need to "Fake" and arrangement.