29 April 2022


# Solos

Solos are melodies which are drawn from scales, arpeggios (chord tones), intervals, and sequences.

## Scales

Scales can also be the Harmonized Chord Scales. The triads and 4-part chords that are in the scale.

- Scale tones connect chord tones.

## Intervals & Sequences

The intervals and sequences, I use for connecting those targets.

## Chords Tones

Chord Tones are the actual notes of the chord as the times or even you substutite. You solo can even outline a different harmony.

- Notes of the chords
- Upper Partials / Extension to chords. The 9 11, and 13ths of chords. Whether that are actually being plaed as part of the chord (background).


## Target Notes

Take a simple chord progressions and using a scale that works over the chords. Play the scale and target, stress single notes. Really listening for how that particular notes sounds against the current chords


Remember that our "Western" harmony is based on Tonic/Dominant movements. The I to V. If the progressions is major or minor it revolves around that. The Tonic and subs are "passive" and the Dominant and subs are "active."

For "Major" the chords with a third (mi) in them are passive and the chords with a fouth (fa) in the are active.

You solos uses all that information. Luckly, in the practice sessons it doesn;t have to be a performance tempo and you can write out all the clues you need and have the "Plan. Stan".

# Practice Session Tips

Stay in one key for the whole session and one position. Next session add the next position up from the previous and stay there all session(s).

Combine those two positions before adding a third.

Have only a few goals for each session.

Curt