# Notes of the Neck
Really knowing the notes of the Ukulele fingerboard pays off big time as you progress. Figuring them out takes as long - they need to be second nature.

## Key Frets
- open: G C E A
- fret: (5) C F A D
- fret: (7) D G B E

## Secondary Key Frets
- fret: (2) A D F# B - THis is the "D Tuning"
- fret: (10) F #A D G - This has the work Fad in it with A#, I had a young student call if "fad Sharp", G.

## The Rest
- fret(4): B E G# C#
- fret (9): E A C# F# - When hand-written it looks like "Each F#"

Any little trick, initially helps
Once mastered Ascending from string four to one (*Nose to Toes*), do each descending from string one to four, *toes to nose*.

### Links and Resources
There are a bunch of lessons and a series or two for this. They all are based on the book: Learning the Ukulele Fingerboard that is available in C, G, and D tuning.


# Improv

Comes from four sources:
- Scales: seems everything comes from the scales
- Intervals: Playing the scale using intervals of 2nds, 3rds, 4ths, 5ths, 6ths, 7ths, Octaves, 9ths. The most common, based on melodies, are 2nd and 3rd.
- Arpeggios: The chord tones of chords. Triads, 4-part Chords.
- Sequences: Melodic sequences off each note of a scale.

As far, what to do with lessons and practice sessions. I would do intervals of thirds (review) using C major: C D E F G A B C. In position, so we don't really end up doing the whole scale octave or even starting on the root in each position. It's actually more useful on ukulele, getting you quicker to use it as sources for improv.

## Assignment

- C Major Scale in Thirds (Review). This might be a review, but a good review. If a position goes really well, try this - I'm sure you haven't done all four ways.
1. Ascending - Ascending: Ascending each interval pair.
2. Ascending - Descending: Alternate ascending each pair: e.g. **C** E, F **D**, **E** G, A **F**, ...
3. Descending - Ascending
4. Descending - Descending

The book [**Practice Material for Contemporary Ukulele** =>](https://learningukulele.com/books/online/PMG1UKE) shows, in standard music notation, the C Major scale ascending and descending.


# Chords: Triads

We'll start with the Traditional Triads. With the Major and Minor Triads that foundation for so many chords, these are the one to master first.

These can be used *Harmonically* as well as *Melodically*.

## Fingering
Chords played as single motes, melodically, often require different fingering than when played harmonically with all the notes together.

### Example G (frets- x 2 3 2)

#### Fingerings for Playing as Chords, Harmonically
- x 1 3 2
- x 2 4 3
- x 1 2 1, barre finger one
- x 1 3 1, barre finger one

#### Fingerings for Playing Melodically
- x 1 2 1 NO barre.

Melodically we can add the fifth D, string One, fret (5) using the pinky, finger four and even start with finger three for the third B, on string four, fret (4). This covers the second position, frets (2) to (5).


- [**Triads - Traditional and Contemporary Triads** =>](https://learningukulele.test/series/code/UL42-TRI)
	- [**Core Ukulele Chords, Major and Minor Triads, Strings 1 2 3** =>](https://learningukulele.com/lessons/code/UL42-TRIa)

Do all three of the voicings of the chords with alternate fingers harmonically and melodically.

## Practice
- [**Exploring Major Triads on Ukulele Using a I IV I V Progression** - C Major =>](https://learningukulele.com/lessons/759)


# "Jazz", 4-part Chords

- [**The Big Six**](https://learningukulele.com/series/code/UL42L1)
	- [**The Big Six Core Chords - F7, Four Voicings** =>](https://learningukulele.test/lessons/code/UL42L1-7) - These four Seventh chords for the core foundation for building all you 4-part chords.


* * *
A lot of what this is probably review, which is not a bad thing. 
 
This should keep you busy for a couple of days ;-)
 
 Music is Melody, Harmony, and Rhythm. It's all tied together.
 
 Any, questions, let me know.
 
 The books I referenced in the session are:
 
 - [**The Six Secrets of Ukulele Fingering** =>](https://learningukulele.com/books/code/6SUF)
 - [**Harmonic Analysis for Scale Selection and Chord Substitution** =>](https://learningukulele.com/books/code/RMA1)
 - [**QuickStart Arpeggio Fingerings for Ukulele, C Tuning - Major Triad** =>](https://learningukulele.com/books/code/QSUAT-C-MAJOR)

