# Curt Sheller - Bio, 3rd Person	

Curt began playing guitar at age nine. Since 1978, he has been a serious student of jazz guitar. He had the great privilege and honor of studying with Chuck Anderson for more than 30 years. Chuck is one of the most knowledge musicians known to Curt. With Chuck’s guidance, Curt focused on jazz and contemporary guitar. With Chuck, no subject was off limits. Topics including arranging, private teaching, 20th century harmony, performing and working with other musicians, and many other innovative explorations.

In the summer of 2003, Curt fell in love with the ukulele and all its possibilities. The ukulele has been the center of Curt’s energy ever since then. Curt’s journey exploring the ukulele began by accident on a CampFire USA trip to South Dakota planned by his wife, Bernadette. Curt searched the Internet for a small travel guitar to bring along, and rediscovered the ukulele instead. Curt began to pursue the potential of the ukulele. Researching the field, Curt realized that there was very little material on the ukulele appropriate for intermediate and advanced players. At that time, Curt had substantial understanding of music and guitar that he could apply to the ukulele. So, Curt methodically began to develop detailed lessons and write books for ukulele players, drawing on his knowledge and experience of playing jazz and contemporary guitar and studying with Chuck Anderson. For the last several years, Curt brought an ukulele instead of a guitar to his lessons with Chuck. Chuck also helped Curt by reviewing and editing Curt’s books and online lesson material.

Curt has developed an international reputation as an ukulele expert, having written more than 30 books and more than 600 lessons for the ukulele and more than 10 books for guitar. Visit Curt’s website at  [www.LearningUkulele.com](http://www.learningukulele.com/)   to see his work as an author and educator. Curt conducts ukulele workshops and runs an annual ukulele festival entitled Funky Frets Ukulele Festival to great acclaim. He remains a professional musician. He recently released a jazz ukulele CD, “How About More Uke?”, exploring the ukulele with traditional and contemporary jazz repertoire and some of Curt’s original music, all of which showcase a nontraditional ukulele performance. Chuck Anderson was a valuable asset leading up to the recording of that CD with his help whipping the charts into shape and allowing us to record his great song Rain Shine. Curt also continue to perform live concerts. Curt, along with his wife Bernadette and daughter Kelly owns and operates the Funky Frets music store in Boyertown, PA, where he sells ukuleles and conducts music lessons. Curt also teaches via Skype.

## Keys to Success
* The key to success in any field is, to a large extent, really as simple as doing quality exploration repetitiously. 
* * Stick with anything long enough and you tend to get good at it. With guidance from the right teacher and mentors and you can get really good.
# Reviews and Comments
* Curt, I really enjoyed your set at The Whiskey—your low-key intros, mic persona provided a cool contrast with your complex uke technique and ingenious arrangements! - Best wishes, – *Jared Denhard*
* Curt, your CD was fantastic. You are amongst the ukulele masters of our day. – John K.
* Just browsing over both books, they look fantastic! I’m a guitarist and uke player for over 25 years and was thinking about writing a ukulele book but you’ve already written what I think are the best, most comprehensive and thorough books I’ve ever seen for the instrument. I just might end up buying every book you’ve written and I’ll be giving my highest recommendation for your books to my friends and students. Thank you so much for taking the time to write such great books! — *Peter Rhee*
* Your chord of the week lessons are great! Really opened my eyes as to what I was doing & has allowed me to figure out the best way to play the chords I need, depending on the arrangement. Ive actually only looked at the first 2 weeks so far, then worked out the 3rd week myself.  I especially like the way that each week builds on what was learned the previous, so you are incorporating all the forms into the exercises!
* “Just received your newest CD. I have listened to it three times now and, as a result have moved you into that group of excellent uke players I especially admire and know that I can learn a great deal from by listening repeatedly to their stylings (not to mention enjoying their fabulous ukulele music).” – *Andy Andrews* / /founder of Ukulele Club of Santa Cruz & the Puna Ukulele & Kanikapila Association/

----
## LINKS to My About Page of Interviews and Reviews
 [https://learningukulele.com/about](https://learningukulele.com/pages/about) 
