# Jazz Chords

- [**Core “Jazz” Ukulele Chords - The Big Six**](https://learningukulele.com/series/code/UL42-7) - From four F7 chord voicings or shapes, your can build your massive 4-part, a.k.a., “jazz” chord vocabulary. Beyond basic open position chords, basic movable form chords and a core set of 4-part chords. There are just too many chords shapes too memorize. Learning the principles of how chords are constructed and the ukulele fingerboard are the way to go. Then you can create more advanced chords like 9#11, 7#5-9, 13b5, 7+9 on the fly as needed.
- [**The Big Six Core Chords - Level One**](https://learningukulele.com/series/code/UL42L1) - Level One includes: **Seventh 7**, Major Seventh maj7, Minor Seventh m7, Half Diminished Seventh or Minor Seven Flat Five diminished 7 (m7b5), Diminished Seventh °7 and Augmented Seventh +7. These six chords form a core set of chords.  Of theses the six chords the 7, m7, and maj7 are more common.

# Notes of the Ukulele Fingerboard

- What Tuning?
	- **Vertical**
		- **Keys Frets** (open), (5), (7)
		- Secondary Frets (2), (10)
		- And, (4), (9)
	- **Horizontal**
		- Natural Letters: A B C D E F G (A..) &bull; Along each single string. Starting on the open string.

The Ultimate goal is, given two of these three: the note name, the string number, and/or the fret number. You can name the remaining missing item: e.g., in C Tuning:

1. G on String one is fret \_\_\_\_\_?, FRET
2. String three, fret (7) is \_\_\_\_\_? NAME
3. G on fret (3) is on string \_\_\_\_\_?. STRING

## Other Drills

- Random shapes and name the notes.
- Find ever \_\_\_\_\_?, Pick any natural, sharp or flat note and find all of them.
- Close your eyes and out your finger on the ukulele, open your eyes and name the note.

These are but a few of the many drills you can do. **YOU CAN NOT KNOW THE NOTES OF THE UKULELE FINGERBOARD IN YOUR HOME TUNING TOO WELL!**
