7-MAR-2022

# Reggae Strum

The Reggae strum is based on subdividing the beat into 4 and counted 12 3 4 for each beat.

## Counts 12 of the 1234

On the **12** of the 1234 count brush down over the lower string 4 and 3. This can be slight to very pronounce, depending on the musical out some you are looking for. If you hit more than the lower two strings it doesn't matter as this is more of a simulation than very precise.

## Count 34 of the 1234

On the **34** of the 1234 strum up with the index finger over the fingerboard right in front of the sound-hole. Striking t string 1 2 and 3. The goal is to strike at 2 strings to sound harmonically vs. melodic.

### Pattern One
```
   D - U  U
|------2--2---|
|------3--3---|
|--2----------|
|--0----------|
   1 2 3 4
```

D = Down stroke with Thumb across lowers strings
U = Up stroke with extended index finger across upper strings.

### Pattern Two
```
   - - U  -
|------2--2---|
|------3--3---|
|-------------|
|-------------|
   1 2 3 4
```

Alternate between pattern one and two. This is the foundation. Everything else will be variations.

```
 D   U U *   U   D   U U *   U
 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
```

### Muting and Sustained

In musical terms, this is **staccato** and **legato**. Staccato is shot and punchy, and legato is letting each note ring until the next note or chord.

- * Mute right after the up up (U U) and before the next up (U) with either the left hand releasing the pressing pressure, just enough for the sound to stop butt with the chording fingers not leaving the strings. Or, palm mute with the right hand.


## Patterns
1. D   U U
2.     U
3. D D U U
3. D D U 
4. D   U
5.     U U

1 and 2 are our foundation. All are counted 1 2 3 4 on each beat.

There are other possibilities but not all will sound musical.
